ATLANTA — President Trump received a thunderous welcome from thousands of gun lovers as he appeared here on Friday at the National Rifle Association’s annual convention to thank the group for its unwavering support of his presidential campaign.

A supporter of restrictions on guns before he entered politics, Mr. Trump became a fierce champion of gun rights during his bid for the White House, earning early backing — and $30 million in campaign support — from the powerful lobbying group.

“Only one candidate in the general election came to speak to you, and that candidate is now the president of the United States, standing before you,” Mr. Trump said. “You came through for me, and I am going to come through for you.”

The president was received as a hero, in part for successfully installing a conservative Supreme Court justice, Neil M. Gorsuch, who is seen as a likely protector of the Second Amendment. Mr. Trump in turn treated the gun convention like a political rally, joyfully recalling his election victory and mocking the journalists and Democrats who were confident that he would lose.

Continue reading the main story
100 Days: The Trump White House
The historic moments, head-spinning developments and inside-the-White House intrigue.
D.C. Vouchers Are Found to Bring Lower Test Scores but Higher Safety
APR 28
Trump Could Save Tens of Millions of Dollars in One Year Under His Proposed Tax Plan
APR 28
Trump Orders Review of Safety Rules Created After Gulf Oil Spill
APR 28
‘Trump Bump’ Lifts Stocks, Giving President a Win for His First 100 Days
APR 28
Congress at 100 Days: Frenetic Action but Few Accomplishments
APR 28
See More »

ADVERTISEMENT

Continue reading the main story

“Remember, they said there is no path to 270,” he said, referring to the number of electoral votes a candidate needs to win the presidency. “There is no route — there is no route to 270. We ended up with 306, so they were right.”

He predicted that he would have no problem dispatching any rival during a 2020 re-election campaign, suggesting at one point that Democrats might nominate Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. He referred to her as he did during the campaign, derisively calling her Pocahontas, a reference to claims she once made about being part Native American.

“It may be Pocahontas, remember that,” he said, prompting laughter in the cavernous room. “She is not big for the N.R.A., that I can tell you.”

Before the president’s arrival, attendees watched hours of videos assailing former President Barack Obama, Democrats and anyone who has advocated gun control measures. The crowd erupted in boos when the large screens showed campaign commercials from last year attacking Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee.

They also laughed as television clips showed members of the news media, Hollywood stars and even Mr. Obama predicting confidently that Mr. Trump would never be elected president.

“The eight-year assault on your Second Amendment freedoms has come to a crashing end,” Mr. Trump told the crowd after assailing Mr. Obama’s record on guns. Now, he said, “You have a true friend and champion in the White House.”